# LCDemoCascadedDevices
Playground for Arduino LED Control Library Cascaded Device Example

I've got an Keyestudio Uno - useful for the additional V,G & S headers against each pin - and a number of cheap 8x8 MAX  7219 LED matrix devices that have a form of SPI interface.  This allows driving of the LED matrices with 5 lines (Vcc, Gnd, Data IN (DIN), Chip Select (CS) and Clock (CLK)) and, by additionally presenting the lines as outputs, allows for cascading of the LED matrices (up to a maximum of 8 devices).  There is a library called 'LEDControl' available for the Arduino that provides a number of example scripts.

I've also got a TM1638-based 8 x 7-segment LED board that has an 8 seperate red LEDs and 8 push-buttons. The Arduino library for this board is the tm1638-library-master

After playing with the examples for each one, I decided to combine them and just play around to see what I could do with them, paying particular note to any speed bottlenecks.

The initial version of the 'playground' script is based on the LEDControl example 'LCDemoCascadedDevices' and the tm1638 element is taken from 'tm1638_functions_example'.  The first set of modifications were simply to add various simple pattern generators to the LEDControl element (eg, displaying random patterns and diagonal fill).  The LEDControl part of the script also reports (to the Serial Monitor) which pattern it is about to display.

The next modification was to make the TM display the number of patterns generated by the LEDControl element, both as a hex value on the 7-segment LEDs and in binary form using the single LEDs.  

A couple of features I'd like to add in the near future are a 16 column x 2 row I2C LCD to show status (rather than having to rely upon the Arduino IDE Serial Monitor), and to use the buttons on TM1638 board to select given sets of patterns or to use an up-down pairing of buttons to change the number of iterations of one or more pattern generators.
